# Introduction

Teacher talked that a keyboard in a cellphone of nowadays is an also have IA incorporated. His example was the suggestion of "dia" after you type "bom".

Another example was SPAM control systems. Ban lists has a list of words that are not allowed. But sometimes some persons that wanna to avoid the block write some words in a wrong way. IA systems can learn patterns and avoid this action of avoid a ban list.


## Types of learning


### Supervised learning

In this model already exists a series of questions and answers correct and the model learn based on this model. And you need to teach the model with new questions and correct answers.


### Learning do not supervised

In this the model needs to learn exploring the data. You will not provide a series of right questions and answers.

 Or to identify groups of customers with similar habits related to a random buy. Or to identify groups of customers with similar habits related to a random buy.


### Learning by reinforcement

In this model the model learn based on a reward or punishment, feedback it receives for each answer.


## Computer vision

Is related to the capacity of an algorithm detect a specific thing in an image or a video. This tecnhnology uses an algorithm with neural networks. This networks was inspired in the human brain and have the capacity of learn complex patterns. Is like to teach a machine to identify a generic remote control and the machine now can identify an arbitrary remote control. And you can create constraints that limit the result, like asking the algorithm to only return results of air conditioner based on the format of the control or the vendor of the control.

This type of algorithm can as example identify a face in an image, or detect a specific object in a video, a sentiment or an ogject moving. Also, this type of algorithm can separeate different objects in an image.

This type of algorithm is used as example in autonomous cars.


## Face detection

Can detect a face and can associate a face to a specific person. Is used as example to unlock a cellphone. Is useful in systems related to surveillance or security.


## Natural language processing (NLP)

Uses models based on neural networks. Teacher showed a screen with an interaction with Chat GPT. The processing can generate the probability of a word appears after other word. This type of algorithms can detect relations of a word with a context, like a historical context or link a word to a professional area.

Teacher also explained that one word can have multiple meanings. And the algorithm can detect the meaning of the word based on the context. Teacher talked the expresssions "semantical analisys" and "lexical disambiguation".

A powerful application of NLP is the text generation (like entire texts or summaries). NLP uses neural language networks.

Teacher also explained that the content generated by the system will be based on the content used train it. Example: a system trained with a hisorical material will generate the content (and way to express) based on this content.


## Robotics

Teacher talked about the learning a robot can make based on the environment, like robots learning about a path in the environment. Teacher also talked about virtual assistants like Alexa.

Teacher talked that the robots can be equiped with several types of sensors to get information from the environment. This way a vacuum cleaner can learn paths in the environment as example. Is a little obvious, but the way a robot learn using information of the environment is like a learn by reinforcement.

